
## Detection
Detecting race conditions from the business owner’s perspective can be challenging. If a few users redeemed the same gift card multiple times, it would most likely go unnoticed unless the logs are actively checked for certain behaviours. Considering that race conditions can be used to exploit even more subtle vulnerabilities, it is clear that we need the help of penetration testers and bug bounty hunters to try to discover such vulnerabilities and report their findings.

Penetration testers must understand how the system behaves under normal conditions when enforced controls are enforced. The controls can be: use once, vote once, rate once, limit to balance, and limit to one every 5 minutes, among others. The next step would be to try to circumvent this limit by exploiting race conditions. Figuring out the different system’s states can help us make educated guesses about time windows where a race condition can be exploited. Tools such as Burp Suite Repeater can be a great starting point.

## Mitigation
- **Synchronization Mechanisms**: Modern programming languages provide synchronization mechanisms like locks. Only one thread can acquire the lock at a time, preventing others from accessing the shared resource until it’s released.
- **Atomic Operations**: Atomic operations refer to indivisible execution units, a set of instructions grouped together and executed without interruption. This approach guarantees that an operation can finish without being interrupted by another thread.
- **Database Transactions**: Transactions group multiple database operations into one unit. Consequently, all operations within the transaction either succeed as a group or fail as a group. This approach ensures data consistency and prevents race conditions from multiple processes modifying the database concurrently.